# Dual Communities

This code accompanies the publication that can be found at [ArXiv:&nbsp;2105.06687](https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.06687).<br>
Community structures represent an important feature of networks. In the connected publication and also this code, we introduce a different class of communities: dual communities. Dual communities arise naturally in optimized network structures.
They shape, similarly to the conventional communities (i.e. primal communities), important network features such as robustness.

## Installation

This code was developed with `python 3.10` and by using conda as an environment management system.

The requirements can be found in `requirements.txt`. 

To setup the exact conda environment in the path=`<path>`that was used in developing this code, you can use the `dual_env.yml` file and activate it.

```shell
conda env create --prefix=<path> -f dual_env.yml
conda activate <path>
```

Furthermore, to run the examples in the Notebook `examples.ipynb`, you need to run 

```shell
conda install -c conda-forge nb_conda_kernels notebook
```
to be able to run Jupyter Notebooks.

## Usage

### Basic Usage
Since the code uses [sagemath](https://doc.sagemath.org/html/en/installation/conda.html) for the conversion of graphs to dual graphs, it needs to be run in the sage console instead of the more common `python` or `ipython`-consoles.

The basic usage for a few examples can be found in the jupyter-notebook 
[examples.ipynb](./examples.ipynb).

### Results Presented in Publication

The scripts found in   [dual_communities/results](./dual_communities/results) can be used to reproduce the essential results presented in the publication.

The scripts `paper_data.py` and `paper_plots.py` are meta scripts that collect data generation functions and plot functions, respectively.


## Data 
The publication uses, in addition to the elementary example, graphs generated by two data sources.

1. Leaf venation networks which are available upon request from the authors of [DOI:&nbsp;10.1371/journal.pcbi.1004680](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1004680).

2. The topology of the Central European grid was generated from PyPSA-Euro and is available at  [DOI:&nbsp;10.5281/zenodo.3886532](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3886532).

The raw and generated data can be found on Zenodo at [DOI:10.5281/zenodo.7243771](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7243771).
This repository contains European power systems for different carbon reduction targets, preprocessed graphs describing the leaf venation networks and optimal networks with two fluctuating sources for different fluctuation levels.
It also includes a snapshot of this github repository.
